<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Report of the Woman's Rights Convention</title>
  <link href="styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
    <h1 class="small-caps" id="toc_5">Report.</h1>
    <div class="transition"></div>
    <section>
    <p>A<em class="small-caps"> Convention</em> to discuss the <em class="small-caps">Social, Civil, and Religious Condition of Woman</em>, was called by the Women of Seneca County, N.Y., and held at the village of Seneca Falls, in the Wesleyan Chapel, on the 19th and 20th of July, 1848.</p>
    <p>The question was discussed throughout two entire days: the first day by women exclusively, the second day men participated in the deliberations. <em class="small-caps">Lucretia Mott</em>, of Philadelphia, was the moving spirit of the occasion.</p>
    <p>On the morning of the 19th, the Convention assembled at 11 o'clock. The meeting was organized by appointing <em class="small-caps">Mary M'Clintock</em> Secretary. The object of the meeting was then stated by <em class="small-caps">Elizabeth C. Stanton</em>; after which, remarks were made by <em class="small-caps">Lucretia Mott</em>, urging the women present to throw aside the trammels of education and not allow their new position to prevent them from joining in the debates of the meeting. The Declaration of Sentiments, offered for the acceptance of the Convention was then read by <em class="small-caps">E. C. Stanton</em>. A proposition was made to have it re-read by paragraph and after much consideration, some changes were suggested and adopted. The propriety of obtaining the signatures of men to the Declaration was discussed in an animated manner: a vote in favor was given, but concluding that the final decisions would be the legitimate business of the next day, it was referred.</p>
    <p>Adjourned to half-past two.</p>
    <p>In the afternoon, the meeting assembled according to adjournment, and was opened by reading the minutes of the morning sessions. <em class="small-caps">E. C. Stanton</em> then addressed the meeting, and was followed by <em class="small-caps">Lucretia Mott</em>. The reading of the Declaration was called for, an addition having been inserted since the morning session. A Vote taken upon the amendment was carried, and papers circulated to obtain signatures. The following resolutions were then read:</p>
    <p>Whereas, the great precept of nature is conceded to be, "that man shall pursue his own true and substantial happiness." Blackstone, in his Commentaries, remarks that this law of Nature being coeval with mankind, and dictated by God himself, is of course superior in obligation to any other.     It is binding over all the globe, in all countries, and at all times; no human laws are of any validity if contrary to this, and such of them as are valid, derive all their force, and all their validity, and all their authority, mediately and immediately, from this original; Therefore,</p>
    <p>Resolved, That such laws as conflict, in any way, with the true and substantial happiness of woman, are contrary to the great precept of nature, and of no validity; for this is "superior in obligation to any other."</p>
    <p>Resolved, That all laws which prevent woman from occupying such a station in society as her conscience shall dictate, or which place her in a position inferior to that of man, are contrary to the great precept of nature and therefore of no force of authority.</p>
    <p>Resolved, That woman is man's equal–was intended to be so by the Creator, and the highest good of the race demands that she should be recognized as such.</p>
    <p>Resolved, That the women of this country ought to be enlightened in regard to the laws under which they live, that they may no longer publish their degradation, by declaring themselves satisfied with their present position, nor their ignorance, by asserting that they have all the rights they want.</p>
    <p>Resolved, That inasmuch as man, while claiming for himself intellectual superiority, does accord to woman moral superiority, it is per-eminently his duty to encourage her to speak, and teach, as she has an opportunity, in all religious assemblies.</p>
    <p>Resolved, That the same amount of virtue, delicacy, and refinement of behavior, that is required of woman in the social state, should also be required of man, and the same transgressions should be visited with equal severity on both man and woman.</p>
    <p>Resolved, That the objection of indelicacy and impropriety, which is so often brought against woman when she addresses a public audience, comes with a very ill grace from those who encourage, by their attendance, her appearance on the stage, in the concert, or in the feats of the circus.</p> 
    <p>Resolved, That woman has too long rested satisfied in the circumscribed limits which corrupt customs and a perverted application of the Scriptures have marked out for her, and that it is time she should move in the enlarged sphere which her great Creator has assigned her.</p>
    <p>Resolved, That it is the duty of the women of this country to secure themselves their sacred right to the elective franchise.</p>
    <p>Resolved, That the equality of human rights results necessarily from the fact of the identity of the race in capabilities and responsibilities.</p> 
    <p>Resolved, therefore, That being invested by the Creator with the same capabilities, and the same consciousness of responsibility for their exercise, it is demonstrably the right and duty of woman, equally with man, to promote every righteous cause, by every righteous means, and especially in regard to the great subjects of morals and religion, it is self-evidently her right to participate with her brother in teaching them, both in private and in public, bu writing and by speaking, by any instrumentalities proper to be used, and in any assemblies proper to be held; and this being a self-evident truth, growing out of the divinely implanted principles of human nature, any custom or authority adverse to it, whether modern or wearing hoary sanction of antiquity, is to be regarded as self-evident falsehood, and at war with the interests of mankind.</p>
    <p><em class="small-caps">Lucretia Mott</em> read a humorous article from a newspaper, written by <em class="small-caps">Martha C. Wright</em>. After an address by <em class="small-caps">E. W. M'Clintock</em>, the meeting adjourned to 10 o'clock the next morning.</p>
    <p>In the evening, <em class="small-caps">Lucretia Mott</em> spoke with her usual eloquence and power to a large and intelligent audience on the subject of Reforms in general.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
    <h2 class="small-caps" id="toc_1">Thursday Morning.</h2>
    <p>The Convention assembled at the hour appointed, <em class="small-caps">James Mott</em>, of Philadelphia, in the Chair. The minutes of the previous day having been reader, <em>E. C. Stanton</em> again read the Declaration of Sentiments, which was freely discussed by <em class="small-caps">Lucretia Mott</em>, <em class="small-caps">Ansel Bascom</em>, <em class="small-caps">S. E. Woodworth</em>, <em class="small-caps">Thomas and Marry Ann M'Clintock</em>, <em class="small-caps">Frederick Douglass</em>, <em class="small-caps">Amy Post</em>, <em class="small-caps">Catharine Stebbins</em>, and <em class="small-caps">Elizabeth C. Stanton</em>, and was unanimously adopted, as follows:</p>
    </section>
    <section>
    <h2 class="small-caps" id="toc_2">Declaration of Sentiments.</h2>
    <p>When, in the course of human events, it becomes necessary for one portion of the family of man to assume among the people of the earth a position different from that which they have hitherto occupied, but one to which the laws of nature and of nature's God entitle them, a decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should declare the causes that impel them to such a course.</p>
    <p>We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men and women are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; that to secure these rights governments are instituted, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed–Whenever any form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of those who suffer from it to refuse allegiance to it, and to insist upon the institution of a new government, laying its foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form as to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety and happiness. Prudence indeed, will dictate that governments long established should not be changed for light and transient causes; and accordingly all experience hath shown that mankind are more disposed to suffer, which evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed. But when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same object, evinces a design to reduce them under absolute despotism, it is their duty to throw off such government, and to provide new guards for their future security. Such has been the patient sufferance of the women under this government, and such is now the necessity which constrains them to demand the equal station to which they are entitled.</p>
    <p>The history of mankind is a history of repeated injuries and usurpations on the part of man toward woman, having in direct object the establishment of an absolute tyranny over her. To prove this, let facts be submitted to a candid world.</p>
    <p>He has never permitted her to exercise her inalienable right to the elective franchise.</p>
    <p>He has compelled her to submit to laws, in the formation of which she had no voice.</p>
    <p>He has withheld from her rights which are given to the most ignorant and degraded men–both natives and foreigners.</p>
    <p>Having deprived her of this first right of a citizen, the elective franchise, thereby leaving her without representation in the halls of legislation, he has opposed her on all sides.</p>
    <p>He has made her, if married, in the eye of the law, civilly dead.</p>
    <p>He has taken from her all rights in property, even to the wages she earns.</p>
    <p>He has made her, morally, an irresponsible being, as she can commit many crimes with impunity, provided they be done in the presence of her husband. In the covenant of marriage, she is compelled to promise obedience to her husband, be becoming, to all intents and purposes, her master–the law giving him power to deprive her of her liberty, and to administer chastisement.</p>
    <p>He has so framed the laws of divorce, as to what shall be the proper causes of divorce; in case of separation, to whom the guardianship of the children shall be given; as to be wholly regardless of the happiness of women–the law, in all causes, going upon the false supposition of the supremacy of man, and giving all power into his hands.</p>
    <p>After depriving her of all rights as a married woman, if single and the owner of property, he has taxed her to support a government which recognizes her only when her property can be made profitable to it.</p>
    <p>He has monopolized nearly all the profitable employments, and from those she is permitted to follow, she receives but a scanty remuneration.</p>
    <p>He closes against her all the avenues to wealth and distinction, which he considers most honorable to himself. As a teacher of theology, medicine, or law, she is not known.</p>
    <p>He has denied her the facilities for obtaining a thorough education–all colleges being closed against her.</p>
    <p>He allows her in Church as well as State, but a subordinate position, claiming Apostolic authority for her exclusions from the ministry, and, with some exceptions, from any public participation in the affairs of the Church.</p>
    <p>He has created a false public sentiment, by giving to the world a different code of morals for men and women, by which moral delinquencies which exclude women from society, are not only tolerated but deemed of little account in man.</p>
    <p>He has usurped the prerogative of Jehovah himself, claiming it as his right to assign for her a sphere of action, when that belongs to her conscience and her God.</p>
    <p>He has endeavored, in every way that he could to destroy her confidence in her own powers, to lessen her self-respect, and to make her willing to lead a dependent and abject life.</p>
    <p>Now, in view of this entire disfranchisement of one-half the people of this country, their social and religious degradation,–in view of the unjust laws above mentioned, and because women do feel themselves aggrieved, oppressed, and fraudulently deprived of their most sacred rights, we insist that they have immediate admission to all the rights and privileges which belong to them as citizens of these United States.</p>
    <p>In entering upon the great work before us, we anticipate no small amount of misconception, misrepresentation, and ridicule; but we shall use ever instrumentality within our power to effect our object. We shall employ agents, circulate tracts, petition the State and national Legislatures, and endeavor to enlist the pulpit and the press in our behalf. We hope this Convention will be followed by a series of Conventions, embracing every part of the country.</p>
    <p>Firmly relying upon the final triumph of the Right and the True, we do this day affix our signatures to this declaration.</p>
    <section class="signatures">
    <p>Lucretia Mott</p>
    <p>Harriet Cady Eaton</p>
    <p>Margaret Pryor</p>
    <p>Elizabeth Cady Stanton</p>
    <p>Eunice Newton Foote</p>
    <p>Mary Ann M'Clintock</p>
    <p>Margaret Schooley</p>
    <p>Martha C. Wright</p>
    <p>Jane C. Hunt</p>
    <p>Amy Post</p>
    <p>Catharine F. Stebbins</p>
    <p>Mary Ann Frink</p>
    <p>Lydia Mount</p>
    <p>Delia Mathews</p>
    <p>Catharine C. Paine</p>
    <p>Elizabeth W. M'Clintock</p>
    <p>Malvina Seymour</p>
    <p>Phebe Mosher</p>
    <p>Catharine Shaw</p>
    <p>Deborah Scott</p>
    <p>Sarah Hallowell</p>
    <p>Mary M'Clintock</p>
    <p>Mary Gilbert</p>
    <p>Sophrone Taylor</p>
    <p>Cynthia Davis</p>
    <p>Hannah Plant</p>
    <p>Lucy Jones</p>
    <p>Sarah Whitney</p>
    <p>Mary H. Hallowell</p>
    <p>Elizabeth Conklin</p>
    <p>Sally Pitcher</p>
    <p>Mary Conklin</p>
    <p>Susan Quinn</p>
    <p>Mary S. Mirror</p>
    <p>Phebe King</p>
    <p>Julia Ann Drake</p>
    <p>Charlotte Woodward</p>
    <p>Martha Underhill</p>
    <p>Dorothy Mathews</p>
    <p>Eunice Barker</p>
    <p>Sarah R. Woods</p>
    <p>Lydia Gild</p>
    <p>Sarah Hoffman</p>
    <p>Elizabeth Leslie</p>
    <p>Martha Ridley</p>
    <p>Rachel D. Bonnel</p>
    <p>Betsey Tewksbury</p>
    <p>Rhoda Palmer</p>
    <p>Margaret Jenkins</p>
    <p>Cynthia Fuller</p>
    <p>Mary Martin</p>
<p>P. A. Culvert</p>
<p>Susan R. Doty</p>
<p>Rebecca Race</p>
<p>Sarah A. Mosher</p>
<p>Mary E. Vail</p>
<p>Lucy Spalding</p>
<p>Lavinia Latham</p>
<p>Sarah Smith</p>
<p>Eliza Martin</p>
<p>Maria E. Wilbur</p>
<p>Elizabeth D. Smith</p>
<p>Caroline Barker</p>
<p>Ann Porter</p>
<p>Experience Gibbs</p>
<p>Antoinette E. Segur</p>
<p>Hannah J. Latham</p>
<p>Sarah Sisson</p>
</section>

<p class="centered no-indent">The following are the names of the gentlemen present in favor of the movement:</p>

<section class="signatures">
<p>Richard P. Hunt</p>
<p>Samuel D. Tillman</p>
<p>Justin Williams</p>
<p>Elisha Foote</p>
<p>Frederick Douglass</p>
<p>Henry Seymour</p>
<p>Henry W. Seymour</p>
<p>David Spalding</p>
<p>William G. Barker</p>
<p>Elias J. Doty</p>
<p>John Jones</p>
<p>William S. Dell</p>
<p>James Mott</p>
<p>William Burroughs</p>
<p>Robert Smallbridge</p>
<p>Jacob Mathews</p>
<p>Charles L. Hoskins</p>
<p>Thomas M'Clintock</p>
<p>Saron Phillips</p>
<p>Jacob P. Chamberlain</p>
<p>Jonathan Metcalf</p>
<p>Nathan J. Milliken</p>
<p>S.E. Woodworth</p>
<p>Edward F. Underhill</p>
<p>George W. Pryor</p>
<p>Joel D. Bunker</p>
<p>Isaac Van Tassel</p>
<p>Thomas Dell</p>
<p>E. W. Capron</p>
<p>Stephen Shear</p>
<p>Henry Hatley</p>
<p>Azaliah Schooley</p>
</section>
<p>The meeting adjourned until two o'clock.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h2 class="small-caps" id="toc_3">Afternoon Session.</h2>
<p>At the appointed hour the meeting convened. The minutes having been read, the resolutions of the day before were read and taken up separately. Some, from their self-evident truth, elicited by little remark; others, after some criticism, much debate, and some slight alterations, were finally passed by a large majority. The meeting closed with a forcible speech from <em class="small-caps">Lucretia Mott</em>.</p>
<p>Adjourned to half-past seven o'clock.</p>
</section>
<section>
<h2 class="small-caps" id="toc_4">Evening Session.</h2>
<p>The meeting opened by reading the minutes, <em class="small-caps">Thomas M'Clintock</em> in the Chair. As there had been no opposition expressed during the Convention to this movement, and although, after repeated invitations, no objections had presented themselves, <em class="small-caps">E. C. Stanton</em> volunteered an address in defense of the many severe accusations brought against the much abused "Lords of Creation."</p>
<p><em class="small-caps">Thomas M'Clintock</em> then read several extracts from Backstrone, in proof of woman's servitude to man; after which <em class="small-caps">Lucretia Mott</em> offered and spoke to the following resolution:</p>
<p>Resolved, That the speedy success of our cause depends upon the zealous and untiring efforts of both men and women, for the overthrow of the monopoly of the pulpit, and for the securing to woman an equal participation with men in the various trades, professions and commerce.</p>
<p>The Resolution was adopted.</p>
<p><em class="small-caps">M. A. M'Clintock, Jr.</em> delivered a short, but impressive address, calling upon woman to arouse from her lethargy and be true to herself and her God. When she had concluded, Frederick Douglass arose, and in an excellent and apropriate speech, ably supported the cause of woman.</p>
<p>The meeting was closed by one of <em class="small-caps">Lucretia Mott's</em> most beautiful and spiritual appeals. She commanded the earnest attention of that large audience for nearly an hour.</p>
<p><em class="small-caps">M. A. M'Clintock, E. N. Foote, Amy Post, E. W. M'Clintock</em>, and <em class="small-caps">E. C. Stanton</em>, were appointed a Committee to prepare the proceedings of the Convention for publication.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>